# obsidian-ctags-plugin

This plugin for [Obsidian](https://obsidian.md) integrates ctags files for easy linking to specific sumbols in code.

Currently this plugin is going under the initial development phase so some of the information here is idealistic and may not be 100% accurate with what is actually functional. 

Initial support will be for VSCode and MacVim. If you have other editors you would like to be supported let me know and I'll see what I can do.

Note: This plugin hasnt been tested on mobile and isn't likely to work there initially. It will likely require the tags file being inside the Vault. I'll look into this once I get basic functionality working.

This plugin is a fork of [hans/obsidian-citation-plugin](https://github.com/hans/obsidian-citation-plugin) and all credit for the heavy lifting should be sent that way. My changes more or less swap out the data source that is used.

## Setup

You can install this plugin via the Obsidian "Third-party plugin interface." It requires Obsidian 0.9.20 or higher.

Once the plugin is installed, you must provide it with a ctags file:

- Exuberent Ctags styled tags files ate suported, but I recommend using [Universal Ctags](https://ctags.io/) and all my testing is done with tags files generated by Universal Ctags.
- The paths referenced in your tags file should be relative to the location of your tags file.
- For specific wierions on generating tags files see the [Universal Ctags documentation]() page on generating your tags file.

To specify the tags file open the Obsidian preferences and view the "Ctags" tab. Enter the path to your tags file in the text field labeled "tags file path." After closing the settings dialog, you should now be able to search the symbols from your tags file from within Obsidian!

## Usage

The plugin offers one simple feature at the moment:

1. **Insert link from tags file** (<kbd>Ctrl</kbd>+<kbd>Shift</kbd>+<kbd>T</kbd>): opens a dialog to search for and choose a entry in the configured tags file. Once a tag is chosen a link will be created that will open the corresponding code file at the tag specified. 

## Planned Improvements/Things I would like to do
- Support for inserting dynamic code snippets based on tags files/line numbers instead of just adding a link to the code
- Support iOS either through WorkingCopy or Textastic 
- Support for GitHub/GitLab links instead of local file links for ease of use with published Vaults. 

## License

MIT License.

## Contributors
- [AsocPro](https://github.com/AsocPro)


### Upstream contributers from hans/obsidian-citation-plugin
- Jon Gauthier ([hans](https://github.com/hans))
- [raineszm](https://github.com/raineszm)
